  Since I was in high school, I always viewed grades as “subjective” even though they were directly correlated to the course content and homework/exam scores. The reason I felt this way was because no student learns the same, and while some courses were strictly reading a book and taking exams, others were more hands on and creative. Some students excelled at memorizing facts and getting an A on a timed exam, while others needed a more creative and hands on approach. I was and still am one of those students who need to learn by doing, and not by reading a textbook. Because of this, I wouldn’t do very well on standardized tests or exams that were just memorization. It didn’t mean I didn’t understand the course content or wasn’t as smart as my peers, but just that I needed a different approach to showcasing my understanding.

  In Alfie’s article, he mentions how students will opt for the easier route when doing homework assignments, just to make sure they get a good grade. I can attest that I have done this countless times. Especially when things from other courses start to pile up and you just want to finish the assignment and move on, while still trying to get an A. By doing this, I didn’t take time to understand or conceptualize what I was learning, why it was (or was not) interesting, and if I had any follow up thoughts and questions. The reason I’ve chosen to take the easier route in the past was simply that: it was easier, and I was more likely to get a higher grade than if I took a different route. By doing this, I can admit that I don’t recall much information from those courses, I wouldn’t be able to reflect and give an overview of what I learned and why it was relevant. I was simply taking the easier route for the grade and to move on to the next class.

  I believe that if grades were removed from courses, students would take the time to learn and comprehend course content and I attribute this to much lower levels of stress and anxiety. In my opinion, the stress and anxiety associated with grades only leads to burn out and takes away a student’s passion for learning. I wouldn’t call striving for an A “motivating” but rather discouraging. It seems to be striving for perfection, rather than slowing down, engaging with the content, and reflecting on it. I have struggled in the past with being a perfectionist and constantly worrying about my grades. This mindset took the fun of learning away from me and in the long-run, I didn’t absorb as much material as I should have because I was constantly worrying and stressed. What I would use as motivation in place of grades is my true desire to learn and constantly challenge myself. There is no better feeling than when I have struggled with understanding a concept and it finally clicks. This desire to learn not only results in more confident students, but also strengthens technical and problem-solving skills.   
